[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: So,
what I'm gonna do is just hop into
the Google Analytics UI and
show you a few things.
My Google Analytics have been kind of
broken on my personal website for a while.
So, the dataset here is going to be
a lot smaller than it should be and
just nobody visits my website in general.
It's a very low, a low traffic place,
I hardly update it.
So when you implement
Google Analytics on your site,
you'll have access to see
some pre-canned reports from
just by integrating
the tracking code on your site.
You'll be able to see things
like how many users or
how many sessions are being initiated
on your site over a given time period?
And this date chooser up on the top
right is constant across the custom
reporting interface and
this pre-canned reporting interface,
so you can select the time
scale data you're looking at.
A couple of the pre-canned reports
which are useful are gonna
be the content drill down which is
something that I use regularly,
especially the primary website that I work
on at Julio is the is the documentation.
So I'm very interested in which pages
people are visiting most often,
which pages have the highest bounce rate,
which ones are the most popular
landing pages, that sort of thing.
So, we'll frequently just kind
of come in to the content drill
down to maybe start at the root
of the of the site and
drill into these various areas to see if
where people are navigating in the site.
So for me, the most hits I have right
now in terms of page views are on
the home page and then the about
where the recruiters can get some
information to try to start to spam me and
then some other odds and
ends on my very poorly
maintained personal blog.
The other bit that you're gonna take
a look at, which is part of one of
the challenges that you can take on
this afternoon is a custom events and
custom events allow you to track user
interaction events in JavaScript while
somebody is interacting with the site.
So that if you are an front-end
masters.com in the video
browsing section or whatever,
you can fire off a custom event for
a video play and understand how
many people are playing videos
on a given page and the idea that
you can get in the pre-canned
is gonna be down here in
the behavior section under events.
If you go to overview,
you'll see a listing of events here.
I'm not doing tracking on my
personal website right now,
but the way that you
track custom events with
a category which consists
of a family of events.
So if you're tracking actions on video
plays, you'll have a video category.
And then actions will be things like play,
pause, rewind, scrub on
the video players and
then labels will be things like the actual
title of the video say and you can use
these customer events in reports in GA.
Now, the part you're going to probably use
the most frequently is a custom report.
And in fact, the newest version of
the Google Analytics API
which you can use today.
Actually, users custom reports as
the way in which you create a filter for
the data that you're
fetching from the API.
It's actually creating
a report ends up in the GUI.
It does actually end up being
a little simpler than it is.
I'm trying to pull the same
data out of the API.
So when you create a custom report,
you're going to be tracking metrics and
across certain dimensions.
So, a metric in Google Analytics is
something that you can measure or
something that you can count.
So some common ones would be for
behavior you have,
let's see,
like the average time on page say.
So, you can track how long
people are staying on a page.
There's also things like the,
oops, the bounce rate.
So when a user lands on a page on your
site and then immediately leaves,
the percentage of people that
do that make up the bounce rate.
And generally speaking,
a high bounce rate for
your offer of page is not all that great.
So, you can track a bounce rate for a page
or other metrics that you care about.
The other bit that you probably are gonna
care about a lot is our goals and
I can show you that interface to create
that very quickly after I'm done here.
But in the custom report,
you can see how many people are reaching
a certain goals within your applications.
So if you have a page that a user can land
on after they successfully signup for
an account,
you can configure that as a goal and
you can track how many people are reaching
that account sign up success page and
you can start to slice and
dice data based on that.
The dimension is going to be
the other axis of this report.
So if the metric is
the thing we wanna count,
the dimension is the unit that
is generating the metrics.
So for something like bounce rate or
a goal conversion,
the dimension that that would
map to is a landing page.
So whichever page somebody comes to
on your site, I'll just search for
landing page and there are lots of
different dimensions you can use.
So we can run a report,
for every landing page,
which of them has the lowest bounce rate?
Here, so you can also filter,
add filters to only look at
certain sections of the site say.
So, you can have a landing page filter and
I do this a lot.
So in this case,
I wanna only look at landing pages that
whose paths start with slash docs.
So if you're only interested in running in
a port for certain sections of the site,
you can add a filter down there,
but I will raise that for now.
I'll just add a few more metrics in here,
so we can see what they look like.
Users and then I can also look at say,
time on page.
Average time on page.
So, I have three metrics that
we're gonna track across
all the different landing pages
on my piddling little website.
So, here's our custom report and
we can see the number of users total
across all the landing pages on the site.
So the landing page with
the highest bounce rate is my
description of a Toy Signal Conference,
but
has a very small amount of
users that are coming there.
The home page has the most
amount of users coming to it,
also has a very high bounce rate.
But for folks that land on the about page,
that bounce rate is quite a bit lower.
After they look at about, they're much
more likely to view a second page or
a third page on my site
during the session.
So, not large numbers here.
But when you're trying to optimize
landing pages for certain user goals,
creating custom reports like this can tell
you how close you are to the mark and
it will let you track
your progress over time.